Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
dubious speculation. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, Bitcoin
had a pretty bad week last week. I mean,
it actually closed the week. Okay.
Because after sweeping the low, we
actually got the weekly close back above
the 200E moving average. And I know, you
know, this will be something we
discussed a lot, especially on Twitter
spaces, the idea of sort of sweeping the
February low, but then still holding the
200 week by the end of the week. And
what it shows is that the bulls haven't
given up yet, at least on losing that
200E moving average. Now, the reason why
this is dubious speculation is because
it's still fairly early on in June to
know for sure, right? If that is the
June low, I would say the odds were
better that we close back above the 200E
moving average. like it's better there's
better odds now uh that it was than if
you had asked me like a couple of days
ago um in terms of like the 2018
structure of just sweeping the February
low, right? Like you had a low in
February uh and then a lower low in June
where we went back up to the bare market
resistance band. So so look at the
similarities. You have the February low
in 2018, then you have the June low and
that's kind of the same thing that we
have here. you have the February low and
the June low and in between that you had
this rally up to the bare market
resistance band in May. Same thing right
here. We went slightly above it, but
it's a it's a really similar setup. And
what happened back then is that we hung
around that those lows for a while
around 6K and then we rallied back up to
the bare market resistance band in July,
like late July, early August.
Again, it's hard to know for sure. Like
back then the low in February was early
February and this time it was also early
February. Back then the high was in um
like late April, early May and in this
time the high was in early May. The low
back then was in mid June, right? It was
like mid to late June. So far this is a
fairly early low in June. So,
you know, I I can't while while I do
think Bitcoin will form a low in June, I
mean, I could be wrong about that, by
the way. Let's not forget I I could be
wrong. The the the main thing I think is
that the the the final low likely
happens in Q4, but
my guess is that a low forms in June
and and then there's another drop like
kind of like later on in the year. Um, a
lot of times what happens, by the way,
for Bitcoin is there's a big drop going
into June and then volatility kind of
like dies off a little bit. Like, yeah,
you get a rally back up to the bare
market resistance band potentially like
you got, you know, back then as well,
but
the volatility really dries up. So, kind
of what happens in bare markets is you
get your your kind of your first big
drop, your first big drop, and then you
get these counter trend rallies where
people are still kind of excited, but
then as you get your drop into June
and like a lot, usually what happens is
then volatility just dries up for the
summer, right? Okay. So then like no
one's around for the summer in the
markets. While if you're if you're
living it daytoday, it can certainly
feel like a big bounce. But when you
look back on it many years later, you're
like, "All right, that volatility mostly
dried up." Like if you guys remember in
2022, the the rally that we had by
Bitcoin right here, like it doesn't
really look like anything. But back
then, that was the rally we had into the
merge for Ethereum. And that was a
pretty big rally. I mean, it doesn't
look like it on the chart. Like if you
look at the the price of Ethereum going
into um into that 2022 move into the
merge. I mean Ethereum like just rally
back up to the bare market resistance
band. But after, you know, after putting
in a low in in June,
but the point is that when you're living
through it, it certainly felt a lot more
aggressive than it was. And Ethereum
came back down. It did not put in a new
low. It just came back down. But when
you look at it for Bitcoin, you can see
like the reason, you know, it felt like
a lot back then, but when you look at it
now, you're like, "All right, it wasn't
really that much different than what
we've, you know, than what you would
expect to see after a major low sort of
setting in June." So again, my guess as
again it's just it's just dubious
speculation, but my guess is that it's a
June low
and then volatility just like dries up
in the summer uh for the rest of the
summer and you get some counter trend
rallies maybe back up to the bare market
resistance band, but you're not going to
get any, you know, anything major.
And then what usually happens is there's
something in Q4 that then finally kind
of allows the market to bottom. I wanted
to talk a little bit about this whole
like you know June low and then rally in
July.
There there are there are some times
where we don't rally in July. Okay. And
I'm not sure if 2014 was one of them and
we can take a look really quick. Um,
so in in 2014, Bitcoin actually went
down in July, but it went up in June. If
you look at 2018, we went down in June
and then up in July, right? It was down
in May and June and then up in July and
then last cycle it was down April, May,
June, and then up in July. And this
cycle so far, it's down in May and down
in June. So my guess, dubious
speculation, is that July would likely
be a green month.
What's difficult to know right now is,
you know, is that low in or not? At the
end of the day, you know, in sort of the
third stage of air markets, which is
where I think we are, usually DCAing is
going to be like an okay strategy as
long as you're aware that the final low
might occur a little bit later in the
year. Um, that's often the better
strategy. It's just hard for people to
kind of make it through the first half
of the year without, you know, losing a
lot of their money because what happens
is you get these counter trend rallies
by Bitcoin and and they just they
basically suck a lot a lot of liquidity
out, you know, whereas what I mean is is
people will, you know, they'll buy the
top and then panic sell and then buy
back in at the top and then panic sell
and they they'll and that kind of
process can really cause people lose a
lot of money. And so what I've said
previously is just if you ignor Bitcoin
for the first half of the midterm year
and then start DCAing in the second
half, that's what usually ends up being
successful for me. Okay? Like in 2022, I
started buying in the second half of the
year. Right after the June low is where
I started to buy Bitcoin. In 2018, I
started to buy after the June low. Now,
the market ripped me a new one come Q4
in both 2018 and 2022. But you can see
that the lows that were formed in Q4
were relatively short-lived. And then
the lows that you might have bought in
say like June, July, August, September,
whatever
sometime in the post or the preh having
year, they ended up looking fine. But
when you're living through it, it feels
kind of bad, right? It feels kind of bad
because, you know, if you're going out
there and you're buying it and you're
like, well, why am I buying it if I
think it's going to go down in Q4? Well,
a we don't know if it's going to go down
in Q4. We don't know for sure. Um and
then the other sort of the B is that um
you know, even if it does go down in Q4,
what are the chances that you buy it?
You know, I'm I don't really leave a lot
of money on exchanges just sitting in
limit orders because I don't just want
to leave a ton of money on exchanges.
Uh, and there definitely have been times
in his in in my history with trading
where I would say that a low was coming
and then I would be right about it, but
the low occurred like when I was at like
a kid soccer practice or something or or
you know, maybe I was out somewhere or
at a restaurant and I just wasn't
looking at my phone and then the like
the low happened and then it came and
went and and then it turned out, oh, I
would just been better off buying it
when I you know previously even though
Bitcoin went lower because I didn't
actually take advantage of it going
lower. So that's another thing that a
lot of people have to contend with is
that like even if you think it goes
lower which I I think it probably will
eventually later on this year if if if
the low for June is in right if the low
for June is in I would argue there's a
good chance you'll see another sort of
drop later in the year. But that doesn't
mean that you know you have to wait for
for that drop to do so. Again, after the
June low in 2022, I started buying
Bitcoin. After the June low in 2018, I
started buying Bitcoin. The market
wrecked me both times after doing so.
But a couple years later, it just didn't
matter. So, a lot of it depends on like
what your time horizon is as well. Like
if your time horizon is 3 months, then
you probably shouldn't be you shouldn't
be watching my channel anyways. Um if
your time horizon is a few years, then
then that's sort of a different story.
So let's see how this June low kind of
unfolds. Whether that is the June low,
um whether you go slightly lower, like
it's really hard to know. Like and I
know a lot of people just want me to
take a stand and say one way or the
other. It's really hard to know because
on one hand, if I were to look at at
and compare it to 2026, I could say that
all right, well, back then we only got a
sweep of the low, so why would we expect
any more than that? Maybe we shouldn't.
But the counterpoint, right, the
counterpoint is if you look at the
year-to- date ROI of Bitcoin in 2026
compared to the average of prior midterm
years, like a lot of times kind of in
that midJune time frame, you see a you
see sort of the market drop. And if you
look at 2014,
this I mean this is not, but but 2014
already kind of had the rally up to
these highs or sorry, in 206, we already
had the rally up to those levels. If you
look at 2018, you can see that the
market went down and then it went down a
little bit more, right? It went down a
little bit more into mid June before
getting that July rally. And that's
what's so hard is like, you know,
imagine if you sold in um
in the first week of June 2022, right?
Like, okay, maybe that would would have
been a low and then the next week we
then like the floor fell out, right? The
floor fell out. Um and and sometimes you
get these long wicks down and then the
market just kind of slowly drifts lower.
Anyways, um and then and then you get
another drop later on. It's so hard to
know, right? Like it it is very very
difficult to know exactly where those
lows form. But again when you look at
the year-to- date ROI in 2020 or sorry
in 2018 and in 2022 you can see that
Bitcoin did take another leg down into
mid June and then it took you to about
call it 55%
down 55 to 60% down from the yearly open
uh is where it took it both in 2018 and
in 2022.
So and and again when you look at the
average
Sorry. When you look at the average and
then throw on that one standard
deviation,
you can see like what I'm talking about.
So to sort of rally now would get us
right back out of those bounds. If So my
guess is that Bitcoin will likely stay
somewhat weak through June. Even if the
low is in, right? Even if the low is in,
I doubt you're going to see us back
going up too much uh before we get later
in the summer. Kind of like if you look
at 2018, even though we swept the low in
June, like Bitcoin, so we swept the low,
we went to 5,700, and then by early
July, Bitcoin was still trading at like
$6,000 on this wick down, and then it
wasn't until later in July where you got
the rally. So, I mean that that could be
how it plays out too is that you get
like this, you know, you Bitcoin
struggles in June and then early July
you sell off and be like, "Oh, well, no,
so much for the July July rally." And
then you get the rally later in July
kind of going into the late July, early
August time frame. So, to dubiously
speculate,
my guess is that Bitcoin will form a low
in June. It is too early, unfortunately,
to know definitively if the low is in. I
would say you have at least a point for
the bulls that they were able to close
back above the 200E moving average. So
that's at least something. And if
Bitcoin can hold the 200E moving average
for the next couple of weeks, then I
think that would significantly increase
the odds of a counter trend rally into
July, maybe back up to the bare market
resistance band. Um, but it's too early
in June to know honestly, you know, if
that has to be the low or not, or if you
get sort of like another drop down in
2022. we actually did drop below the
200E moving average and it actually
happened in the in the in mid June,
right? It happened in mid June. Um, and
this is a good example of like if the
low is in here, like if this is the low,
you would likely see Bitcoin stay weak
for a few more weeks before you get that
counter trend rally into July, right?
Before you get that counter trend rally,
potentially back up to the bare market
resistance band. So I think at this
point it's more of like a wait and see
in terms of like an academic exercise as
to how this rest of the month is going
to play out. Um every week will
obviously have a lot of importance to
it. If we can hold the 200E moving
average for a second week, then the odds
go up a lot that the the sort of the
June low is in. So I'd say this this
coming week is is going to be pretty
critical in terms of you know sort of
the overall structure of the market and
um and how I see it playing out. But
those are my views. I mean, again, it's
just dubious speculation. The truth is,
no one knows. I mean, short-term price
action is is a random walk, right? It's
geometric bounty in motion. It we can't
hope to predict it. And that's why we
dubiously speculate about it because,
you know, like who knows, right? Who
knows? But the structure of the market,
like the larger structure of the market
is intact, right? Your your February
lows and your June lows. This is
something that often plays out and you
can see that it's actually played out.
Once again, the only real question in
the air is exactly where is the June
low? Is it in at 59K or do you go
slightly lower later in June and then
sort of work off of that? So, we'll see.
We have to take this one day at a time.
Thank you guys for tuning in. Make sure
you subscribe. Give the video a thumbs
up. Um, and I will and I know we're
almost at a million subscribers. That's
kind of cool. Um,
we'll see. We'll see if I can hit that.
I think I'm going to hit it relatively
soon. So, make sure you guys subscribe
and I'll see you next time. Bye.